We're all ready to go,
now we need to drive some traffic to it.
So how do we do that?
Well, we can start off with a bit
of community engagement, right?
There are all those communities we talked
about where our audience hangs out.
We can start posting on there and we can
be really honest and upfront and say,
look, I'm thinking about building
this thing, love you to check it out.
If you think it's cool, feel free to
pre-order or to join the mailing list,
if you've got feedback, drop me an email.
Where you go will be somewhat
dependent on your audience,
but those are the kinda places.
You might be wondering, well,
why don't I do a Product Hunt to launch?
Because, couple of reasons.
First of all, Product Hunt tends to favour
applications that got very broad appeal.
There are certain types of people that
spend their lives on Product Hunt.
And if that's not your audience is
probably not the best platform for you.
It also doesn't address the issue of
generating traffic over the long term.
So, give you a big spike of traffic,
because if you perform
well on Product Hunt,
you'll get a load of traffic from it.
But that's not giving you any sense of
the sustainability of the business over
the long term, or whether people
will buy over the long term.
So it's a kind of artificial thing.
I'm not saying you don't launch
on Product Hunt later, but
I wouldn't run this test campaign, I would
wait till the products actually up and
running before I consider putting
it anywhere like Product Hunt.
So, yeah, just bear that in mind,
it's not the time to do that
kind of thing right now.
Now other option is Content marketing,
I do a lot of that as a way of
drawing awareness to my landing page.
So there's no point of posting to
your blog cuz nobody's reading it.
But you might wanna go and
blog on other people's sites and
be a guest blogger, that can be an
excellent way of reaching your audience.
So, I've blogged over the years
on all kinds of really dull blogs
that like the institutional web
managers workshop blog, right?
Sexy, that is, isn't it?
But that was where my audience for
that particular campaign was.
So that's where I went and blogged.
You go where your audience is and
contribute, and
you talk about a subject that
surrounds whatever it is.
The other one I do quite
a lot is podcasts.
So, for example, appearing as a guest
on podcasts that audience is on.
And again, it's the same principle,
you don't just go in there and
sell the product because
nobody will care and
they won't want you as a guest
on the podcast if you do that.
But you can talk about some of
the pain points of your audiences and
some of the ways they can deal with it and
how your app can help with that.
And inevitably, a podcast host will always
say, where can people find out more
about you or something along those
lines and that's when you promote it.
Then of course there's social.
So, you can start posting on
social about the pain points and
the questions and
the goals the audience has.
And in your bio,
you link back to your landing page.
Also, engaging with
influencers via social, right?
Not in a, hey, will you check out my app,
please you've no idea how many
of those I get every day.
And I'm a,
probably the worst influencer that you
can get out there in terms of status.
But what you're doing is you build a big,
to build a relationship
with some of those people.
And don't go, I'm not talking
about massive influences here.
I'm talking about influencers
with a small lie.
There are key people in an industry who
aren't necessarily doing TikTok right?
But are key people that a lot of people
know and chat with and stuff like that.
So, I remember once I was working
on a higher education campaign.
And you remember I mentioned
institutional web managers workshop.
Well, that was run by a guy called Brian,
right?
And Brian just ran that mailing list,
but everybody knew Brian, right?
And Brian was at every event, he was
always very chatty, everybody liked Brian.
I became friends with Brian and
Brian ended up promoting my stuff.
Now, would you call Brian an influencer?
Well, he is, but he's not an influencer
with a big eye, so look for
those kinds of people.
The Brain's of this world, right?
They don't get enough love
the Brian's of this world.
So social is another and
then of course there's paid acquisition.
So, you might want to put
a bit of money into it,
doesn't need to be a lot, few $100,
if you can afford it even less if you
can't just to put out some paid posts,
maybe some sponsored posts on
certain well-regarded websites.
Probably not as high on the agenda for
me, I would prefer to pay some money,
maybe for some pay per click
advertising where I'm only paying for
click-throughs on relevant search terms.
Or maybe some social ads.
But you gotta start thinking
about how are you going to be
regularly driving your audience.
And if you can't drive
them to the landing page,
you're not gonna be able to drive them
to the product at the end of the day.
So the key, you're gonna start
thinking about your ongoing
marketing strategy and that landing
page is a test scenario for that.
But it does all basically come
down to either organic or
paid acquisition and
is either kind of content marketing and
getting out there where your
audience is or it's ads.
Those your two choices in a nutshell.
Over time you can get more sophisticated,
for example, Frontend Master, they
don't need to advertise to a lot of places
because they've built their name up.
They've got podcast and they've got a blog
which you've got a good readership already
so that, people are coming to them
rather than them going out to people.
But you're not gonna have the luxury
of that to be in with, so
you gonna have to go
where your audience are.
So there's a lot of
legwork involved in that,
and that's the thing
that most people forget.
The marketing will take a vast
majority of your effort.
I mean, I know lots of app owners and
they spend most of their
time going to events,
going on podcasts, that kind of thing.
So it's a big part of the job.